# matplotlib-challenge

Unit 5: Matplotlib HOMEWORK 

Included in this repository is my solution for the Unit 5: Matplotlib Homework for the Georgia Tech Analytics Bootcamp.

We were tasked with data from the company Pymaceuticals Inc.. They specialize in anti-cancer pharmaceuticals. This repository contains the data for some potential treatments for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a kind of skin cancer. The company wants to know how their drug of interest, Capomulin, does versus the other treatment regimens. The study included 249 mice who were monitored over 45 days. 

The notebook that analyses this data is located in the Pymaceuticals folder in the resposistory. That folder also contains a resources folder with the raw data in csv form. Upon reading in the raw data, we had to check the data over to see if there were any discrepansies. This led to the discovery of a duplicate mouse, which had to be removed from the data. Once clean, the new dataframe could be manipulated to show all the stats for tumor volume by Drug Regimen and Mouse ID. Then we generated a bar graph that described the number of timepoints that each Drug had in the study. Next is a pie chart which compares the distribution of sexes of the mice in the study. After calculating the final tumor volume for each mouse for four of the drug regimens (Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin), we put that new data into quartiles to look at each drug's distribution, using both IQR data and a box and whisker plot, as well as going over any outliers. Subsequently, we were asked to create two graphs detailing the Capomulin drug in particular: a line graph for an individual mouse comparing the mouse's weight to the tumor volume, and a scatter plot comparing the avg weight of the mouse to the tumor volume. The last step was calculating the correlation coefficient and doing a linear regression model on the previously mentioned scatter plot. Finally, I wrote some of my own observations about my interaction with the data (they are located at the top of the notebook).

I did run into some road blocks with this code that led to some creative, if not a bit circuitous solutions. The first that I ought to mention was when I was trying to put the table together that included the final tumor volume for each mouse. I had originally meant to do a merge on the data, but I was struggling to get the proper data to show since there were groupby functions involved. I ended up using the aggregation method with a lambda function to find the values. I am aware that this is not the same as finding the greatest value in the timepoints, but I examined the data and saw that it was already in a sorted format so the last timpoint would be the greatest. This method led to some clunkiness later on but everything worked out. The second stumble was the outliers. Instead of finding them before I generated the box and whisker plot, I  decided to see what outliers the plot showed. It only showed one, and I went and retrieved that value, but it wasn't part of the original loop that gave me the IQR data, so I copied the printed output into the new calculation rather than doing the whole thing over again. If someone had to run this code with a slightly differnt data set, that would be something they have to check and update. 

The only other thing that I feel obligated to point out is the data put into the pie chart describing the distribution of sexes. I decided to use the full dataframe rather than reducing it to one instance per Mouse ID. I think that this chart is still valuable, because it has an extra depth of somewhat reflecting the possibility that one sex could take to the treatments more than the other, live loger, and have more data points.

Includes:
1. The Jupyter Notebook that is the main script for this assignment, PharmaMain.ipynb.
2. A Resources folder that holds the original datasets for Pymaceuticals, Mouse_metadata.csv and study_results.csv